Building a Basic Linear Model with rStudio
 So, I am in my first year of data Science at my local University. My reason for diving into data science stemmed from always being intrigued with computers and electronics. My very first computer was a Commodore Vic-20 computer. I guess we can call it a computer. The only pieces that came with the electronic device was a big fat keyboard. You hooked the computer to the antenna screws to the back of your television in the family room. I only had one game to play with it. I recall a game with a toothbrush that fought off the cavity creeps. Other than that, I had a booklet that showed me how to build a game using BASIC programming. Unfortunately, I didn't have any memory devices for the darn thing and had to program it every-time I wanted to run the program.
I started taking electronic and computer science classes years ago. My occupation deals with electronic systems, so my early education helped me move up the ladder. Now, almost 30 years on the job, I realize that learning data is playing a large part of the corporate industry. If you can analyze data and communicate your findings with a solution, you'll be able to harness an advantage over those that disregard or just havn't adopted the importance of data science.
To start out with the basics, I am going to look at a data set called pesticides. I've uploaded the data-set under Kaggle and github. For your curiosity, I'll give some background on the data-set. I'm not really sure where the data-set came from. I ran across the set from one of my lectures that I attended regarding to data science. The pesticide data-set consists of 15 observations of pesticide placed on 4 blocks. Blocks are a plots of land that are used to to observe the effects of the pesticide. We have four blends of pesticide that we will observe the effects of percent loss of the crop. Our linear regression will show the percent loss of the crop using a certain blend of fertilizer. We will analyze four blends noted as A, B, C, and D.
For our first step we will install the tidyverse package and add it to  our library. After running the tidyverse install and library, set the path to your file location.
After we set the path of our directory to where the file is loaded, we are going to load out pesticide.txt file. For simplicity, I'm going to name it in rStudio as p.
We type the word p and hit the Run. This shows us what our data set looks like. Lucky for us we only have 15 observations.
P shows us the observations with 5 blends applied to 3 individual blocks, providing the 15 observations.
The next bit of code I want to illustrate how rStudio labels the pctloss, Block, and blend. We use class() to tell us what rStudio classifies our variables.
When we run the code we get the following information about our data, and how rStudio views the data in our columns.
We don't want our block data to be recognized as an integer. We want the data to be recognized as categorical data; Therefore, we must change the data by putting factor in front of the data as shown.
We set P1 as our analysis of variance (aov). The pctloss is our dependent variable and our independent variables are the Block and the blend. We place the p$ in front of the columns we want. Remember earlier we named our data-set p. rStudio recognized Block as an integer, so we needed to make it categorical by placing factor in front of it, and encase our variable in parenthesis. let's run and summarize (show the output) of our aov.
Now we must look at our summary of p1.Our F value for block is relatively low, but our blend is relatively large. In addition, we want to look at our p value. If we have a significant result we should have a p value of < 0.05. If we have a value of 0.05 or less we must reject the null hypothesis.
Since we don't have sufficient information using our ANOVA, I want to use the TurkeyHSD syntax to look at the differences between the blends and blocks.
We are still looking for p-values < 0.05 for significance. We look at our blocks and can see that our blocks are all high numbers. The closest significant difference in our blends of fertilizer is between E-D. Now this is not exactly < 0.05, but it gives us an idea.
I'm now going to run a linear model to see what is the outcome. Also, print out the summary.
results
Running this we can see that our model is sound. Our intercept has a t-value that is high with a p-value <0.05. From the model we can tell that blocks have no significance in our model. We can drop the blocks from our model. We look at our blends and find that blend E had a t-value that is 2.403 and a p-value of 0.0431 which is < 0.05. So from this model we can say that blend E is showing some significant result. In our next model I'm going to drop the Block. 
By dropping the blend and running this linear model we have a clearer picture. Our t-value at the intercept is still high, with a p-value < 0.05. We know it's < 0.05 because of the 3 asterisks on the end. Looking at the bottom blend E has a t-value relatively high with a p-value < 0.05. For blend E we must reject the null hypothesis.
Lets now use boxplots and whiskers to do some further analysis.
From our plot we can visualize the differences between the blends. blend E has the most significant loss of all our blends. Blend D-E has the most significant difference as shown in our analysis of variance model. 
I hope you enjoyed this little model and was able to gain a little more insight into how we use data science to make an analysis. We can use the same model for an infinite amount of data-sets. So, go out and find some data and do some analysis.
